Ljubomir JOSIFOVSKI
LjubomirJosifovski@gmail.com | 07910 850 111 | 11 Pendennis Court, Harpenden AL5 1SG, UK
Summary

Self-starter. Quantitative researcher, analyst, developer, building and trading systematic equity/FX models
(forecasting, portfolio optimisation, risk management, operations, post trade analysis) at hedge funds,
proprietary trading desk, as independent Portfolio Manager. Analytical maths/stats/CS/EE background,
statistical learning/modelling experience, competent programmer/developer in C/C++/shell/Matlab/
python/C#/Sql on Linux/Windows/Mac, self-sufficient systems/network admin.

Skills

C/C++/OpenMP, SQL (Postgres, MS server), GNU tools (g++/gcc, ddd/gdb, c/make, vim), matlab, shell
tools (bash, awk), VSEditor, python, jupyter, version control (git, cvs, mercurial, MS Teams), R, Java,
C#/Visual Studio, batch schedulers (slurm, Condor), Bloomberg terminal/API, Reuters Kobra, assembly.

Platforms

Linux (X/ubuntu, CentOS), Windows (from-3.1-NT-95-XP-to-11, cygwin), MacOS, Unix (HP-UX, AIX).

Work

May 16 - Now

F9 Research, Harpenden, UK
Position: Director.
Quant research, development and trading. Portfolio manager, run a small market
neutral book ~350M USD gross, trading ~35M USD daily in the EU markets (and a
small R&D US book). Consulting for quant R & D for a client, working on higher
frequencies and short horizons (seconds and minutes) in C/C++, OMP, python,
Matlab, Postgres, cloud boxes and slurm cluster. Input into varying aspects of the
R&D pipeline - from informing and assessing latest technologies (including ML) to
interviewing new teams members.
F9 owns the IP to all and any R&D work done.

Feb 10 - Mar 16

Marshall Wace, London, UK
Position: Quantitative Researcher.
On the TOPS QR team, senior team member among a handful of people, creating
research, developing code, shepherding the market neutral portfolio growth from a few
hundred millions to double digit billions USD gross book size. Ushered the idea of a
single unified framework for all quant R & D & trading with standardised components
- data ingestion and caching, signals extraction, modeller for forecasting, portfolio
optimizer, trades simulator, standardised reporting, a baseline sim faithful and realistic
to be continuously improved on by the entire team working in unison on various
components of the system. Wrote or significantly contributed to significant
components of the system through their iterative improvements over the years. Major
projects in production improving the then best baseline: dynamic modeller fitting the
alpha signals expected returns at multiple horizons, incorporating both prior
knowledge, constraints, and the evidence from historical data, market impact model in
the simulator and the optimizer incl slippage monitoring tuning and balancing risk cost
of undercharging with the opportunity cost of overcharging, liquid concentrated low
TO high capacity market neutral portfolios, 150/50 portfolios mix of tracker and
market neutral, shepherding the trade scheduler deployment in production, alphas
signals GeoSales, Suppliers-Customers, Directors deals, various reverting signals, 1st
quantitative research and assessment on the in-house Alpha Capture signal. Guided
and helped younger hires from onboarding to them becoming fully productive wholly
effective team members. Pioneered reproducible research at scale using multi cpu
multi core R&D boxes with establishing and popularising best practices.

Nov 07 - Nov 09

Credit Suisse, London, UK
Position: Quantitative Analyst.
On the Index Arbitrage proprietary trading desk. Independently traded equity
market/sector/factor neutral portfolios on multiple European markets, fully automated
and systematic, non-discretionary. Wrote own trading, analytics, backtest and portfolio
construction systematic trading platform consisting of a Matlab core, Mosek optimiser,
bash/awk scripts, Reuters Kobra Excel and Sql for historic and current data, with
integrated risk monitoring and control using Barra’s style factors and sectors. Used the
platform to research and trade all the strategies and portfolios. Alone did orders

1

generation, portfolio construction, forecasting & modelling, all data feeds (Reuters,
Sql dumps), the daily monitoring, trading analysis and slippage tracking and any other
R&D&ops as needed for trading. Traded multiple portfolios daily of ~500 names in
total on London, Paris, Frankfurt, Switzerland, Milan and Madrid exchanges, one trade
per day per name. Did R&D simulations for intra-day horizons faster TO.
In 2008 traded the London portfolio most of the year as a testbed for all research &
development, returning 10% gross in 230 days with Sharpe of 2.5. In 2009 traded
bigger book on most of the European markets, returned 8% gross to Aug’09 with
Sharpe of 5.2, turnover 2-3 days, one trade per name per day. All together lifetime
(388 days) return on gross 18% at Sharpe of 3.1.
Jul 04 - Sep 07

G-Research (part of the DPFM group), London, UK
Position: Quantitative Analyst.
Research (70%), development (20%), daily portfolio monitoring and support (10%) in
a multi-billion market neutral hedge fund systematically trading global equities and
spot FX round the clock in a completely automated system. Research and creation of
new trading models/alphas, coding, testing in simulation and putting them in
production. Models for volume prediction, fundamentals and technical equities models
(multiple markets,), spot FX - all productionised and live traded. Built futures models
but not traded live. Development included coding up the models, the associated data
analytics, and subsequent performance and integrity monitoring once live. The
portfolio support role involved monitoring the trade flow, market conditions and risk
factors, investigating/tuning the trading. In the process familiarised myself with
forecasting and modelling, performance attribution, multiperiod quadratic portfolio
optimisation, risk measurement and management (Barra, APT, custom factors), realtime and historic data feeds, data aggregation. Independently came up with original
alphas building on well known semi-parametric models for forecasting that were
traded live in equities and spot FX trading. Similarly contributed alphas based on
novel non-parametric models used for trading equities. They were all profitable,
contributed to the bottom line and were traded along the other alphas.

Jun 01 - Jun 04

Canon Research Europe, Bracknell, UK.
Position: Researcher.
Research & development work in the Machine listening group on ASR and indexing &
retrieval of spoken documents. Contributed to all aspects of Canon's low resource
embedded multiplatform ASR engine: the front-end (DSP related), decoder (Mpeg7
compatible lattice creation), training & using statistical models (acoustic HMM
multilingual, text-to-phone Ngrams). Group demonstrated embedded speaker
independent phone book name dialling on ARM9 & ARM7 phones. Phonetic indexing
of spoken documents/annotations & retrieval with spoken & written queries. Invented
& implemented in the embedded C++/C codebase novel algorithm for searching
annotation (speech) lattices with a query (speech) lattice, outperforming other known
techniques for phonetic SDR (LATTICE MATCHING, UK Patent App No 0316669.1,
accomp app ref 2865001, Jul 2003). Demoed playlist entry selection by voice for an
MP3 player, performing in near realtime on Windows CE platform with 1500 entries.

Nov 00 - Jun 01

Motorola European Research Lab, Basingstoke, UK.
Position: Research engineer.
Technology transfer from my PhD work to Motorola (my industrial sponsor). Research
on the distributed speech recognition (DSR) ETSI Aurora 2 standard platform.
Developed robust ASR algorithms in Matlab, GNU C/C++ and tested them on
Cygwin, HP-UX and Linux platforms. Lab was part of the winning consortium of the
ETSI Aurora 2 standardisation competition for mobile phones robust front-end.

Nov 97 - Jan 98

Macedonian Banking Operations Centre (USAID funded project for technical support
of the financial sector in Macedonia), Skopje, MK.
Position: Management Information Systems - Electronic Data Processing (MIS-EDP)
Advisor.
In a team of advisers analysing operations of commercial banks in Macedonia.
Handled the MIS-EDP operations of the banks surveyed, reported on the state of and

2

recommended improvements. By the end of the project all commercial banks in
Macedonia volunteered to have their operations surveyed and reported on.
Nov 93 - Oct 97

Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, University Sv. Kiril i Metodij, Skopje, MK.
Position: Systems engineer.
Solely responsible for maintaining all faculty computers (100+ PCs, 10+ Unix
workstations), faculty LAN spanning 3 buildings, other computing-related equipment
(printers, terminal servers, router). Faculty LAN massively expanded, doubled the size
of existing and added a second computerised classroom for students and lab classes,
introduced email & other Internet services to every staff member and student, phased
out legacy systems (VT420 terminals, terminal servers). Maintained/supported
collection of legacy Clipper/FoxPro accounting applications.

Jun 93 - Oct 93

NeoCom, Skopje, MK.
Position: System integrator.
In small & dynamic company, clients facing, computer systems assembly, integration,
software installation, maintenance (PC/Windows), computer networks (Novell
NetWare, Windows LAN) installation & maintenance on- and off-site.

1986 - 1993

Freelance S/W developer, undergraduate & hobby programming
Basic & assembler (6502) on home computers. Mission critical (firing heavy guns) on
pocket computers (HP-71B, Sharp 1500) and TurboPascal (Apple II+CP/M
board+HDD) while national service (army). MS-DOS systems programming (C &
assembler, TSR programs: screen capture, serial port snoop, DOS trashcan), network
programming (NetBIOS based LAN messenger, IPX chat, IPX stack emulator in
DesqView), PC databases (video shop rental application in Clipper, various
applications in FoxPro, document flow in MS-Access).

Education

1998 - 2000

Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. (Full-Time)
Speech and Hearing Group, Department of Computer Science, Faculty of
Engineering, University of Sheffield, UK.
Independent research into recognising speech in noise. Missing data model treats parts
of the speech spectrum swamped by noise as unobserved/partially observed, giving
rise to a probabilistically modelled mask that has to be incorporated in the frame-byframe adapted speech model. Work involved theory of automatic speech recognition as
well as practice, training HMMs with continuous GMM pdfs using EM (HTK, shell
scripting), writing and using Viterbi decoders and frontends to test novel noise
robustness algorithms, noise and SNR estimation (Matlab, C++, C). Part of EC
ESPRIT LTR programme funded RESPITE project of 5 research labs and 2 industrial
partners and EC TMR programme funded SPHEAR network.
Thesis: "Robust speech recognition with missing and unreliable data". (Viva Dec
2002)

1993 - 1997

M.Phil. Electrical Engineering (Part-Time)
Department for Computers and Informatics, Faculty of Electrical Engineering,
University Sv. Kiril i Metodij, Skopje, MK.
Studies consisted of taught part (2 years/4 semesters) for 6 courses and thesis work (1
year/2 semesters) followed by a viva. Courses achieved avg grade 10 (scale 6-10, 10
best). Projects: video-over-IP frame rate control and QoS using UDP non-blocking
sockets (C/C++, part of a system for tele-teaching system); database of Medieval
Manuscripts (Delphi). Thesis/research - built system for converting written text into
speech. Rudimentary time-domain, syllable based TTS. Created a database of 1200
syllables, wrote TTS engine breaking the input text into syllables (using an NN MLP),
concatenating the units from the syllable database, generating F0 and the duration
contours, modifying the syllable units accordingly in time domain. Gathered and
labelled data, trained a two layer, feed forward MLP (neural network) to mark syllable
breaks in the input text. Part of a larger project for automatic text reading for the blind.
Thesis: "System for text-to-speech conversion for Macedonian language".

3

1988 - 1993

B.S. Electrical Engineering (Full-Time)
Department for Computers, Informatics and Automation, Faculty of Electrical
Engineering, University Sv. Kiril i Metodij, Skopje, MK.
Taught studies 4.5 years (9 semesters) followed by a diploma work (1 semester) and
public presentation. Achieved average grade of 8.78 (scale 6-10, 10 best).
Diploma project: "Introduction to DECNET, Bitnet (EARN) and Internet networks; Email/File transfer services; X.25 Network and out-dial NUAs".
Best student within my college class in years 1 & 2. Ranked 1st (100 points out of
100) among of approx 800 candidates at the University entrance exams.

1983 - 1987

R.J. Korcagin High School, Skopje, MK.
Mathematics and Computer Science High School, achieved GPA 5.00 on a 2 to 5 scale
(5 best), voted best pupil (“valedictorian”) of the 1983-87 generation.

Nationality

UK (acquired/by choice), Macedonian (by birth). Born 1968.

Languages

English, Macedonian (native), Croatian, Serbian.

Honours
&
Awards

Scholarships: merit research & science 1988-93, talented student 1983-87. Best student 1989,'90.
Maths competitions prizes: Regional 1st 1984, ’86, ‘87, 3rd 1985; Republic 3rd 1984, ’85, ‘87;
National participation 1984, ‘85, praise 1987.

Other

UK and MK driving licences, married, two children.

4

